<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<link href="styles/custom.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>The Let Them Theory: A Life-Changing Tool That Millions of People Can’t Stop Talking About</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b0b1ab8d-79fd-4cb5-92a2-3344635d5884" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="appendix">
<h1 class="cn"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_300" title="300"/><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-10" id="pz9-10_1">APPENDIX</a></h1>
<p class="ct"><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-10">How to Apply Let Them to Parenting</a></p>
<p class="tx1-1">One of the most common questions I get is how to use the Let Them Theory in parenting. Let’s be honest—if you let your kids do whatever they want, they’d probably be eating ice cream at every meal, skipping homework, and avoiding chores. But as a mom of three, I’ve discovered that when you let your kids be themselves, your relationship improves and deepens in ways you never thought possible.</p>
<p class="tx">While this book primarily focuses on adults, the Let Them Theory is also a powerful tool for parenting kids of all ages. It’s about connecting, supporting, and guiding—not controlling. Ultimately your job as a parent is to guide your children to become who they are meant to be, in other words—<span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>.</p>
<p class="tx">To help you strengthen your bond with your kids (and hopefully keep your sanity intact), I’ve put together a special bonus guide filled with practical tips on using the Let Them Theory in parenting. Because who doesn’t want an incredible relationship with their kids?</p>
<p class="tx">Download it at <b><a href="http://melrobbins.com/parenting">melrobbins.com/parenting</a></b> to get started.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>