<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<link href="styles/custom.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>The Let Them Theory: A Life-Changing Tool That Millions of People Can’t Stop Talking About</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b0b1ab8d-79fd-4cb5-92a2-3344635d5884" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="backmatter">
<h1 class="ct-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_309" title="309"/><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-14" id="pz9-14_1">Bibliography</a></h1>
<p class="tx1-1">I’ve poured everything into this book—my heart, my soul, and years of learning from the best experts in the world. The Let Them Theory is built on research that’s always evolving, just like you and me. What I’m sharing here is a powerful beginning, but there’s always more to discover. Human behavior and relationships are endlessly fascinating, and as new insights emerge, our understanding will only deepen. The reason I’ve listed all the sources in alphabetical order is simple: I want you to focus on the bigger picture, not get lost in a sea of citations.</p>
<p class="tx-1">This theory isn’t about isolating one study—it’s about blending the most powerful ideas from psychology, neuroscience, and human behavior to create something transformative for you. As I said in the Introduction, this book is not a textbook or an academic paper, but rather a guide. The sources in the following pages are just a glimpse into the incredible work that has shaped the <span class="big"><i>Let Them Theory</i></span>. Your journey doesn’t end here—it’s just getting started.</p>
<hr/>
<p class="tx1-1">Abbott, Alison. “New Theory of Dopamine’s Role in Learning Could Help Explain Addiction.” <span class="big"><i>Nature</i></span>, August 9, 2018. <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-05902-7">www.nature.com/articles/d41586-018-05902-7</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Alter, Adam. <span class="big"><i>Anatomy of a Breakthrough: How to Get Unstuck When It Matters Most</i></span>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Amabile, Teresa, and Steven Kramer. <span class="big"><i>The Progress Principle: Using Small Wins to Ignite Joy, Engagement, and Creativity at Work</i></span>. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Review Press, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_310" title="310"/>Amati, Valeria, et al. “Social Relations and Life Satisfaction: The Role of Friends.” <span class="big"><i>Genus</i></span> 74, no. 1 (2018): 1–18.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Aron, Arthur, and Elaine N. Aron. “The Importance of Love and Commitment in Close Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Psychology of Relationships</i></span> 45 (2012): 150–172.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Aurelius, Marcus. <span class="big"><i>Meditations</i></span>. Translated by Gregory Hays. New York: Penguin Classics, 2006.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bandura, Albert. “On the Functional Properties of Perceived Self-Efficacy Revisited.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Management</i></span> 38, no. 1 (2012): 9–44.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Barron, Helen C., et al. “Unmasking Latent Inhibitory Connections in Human Cortex to Reveal Dormant Cortical Memories.” <span class="big"><i>Neuron</i></span> 107, no. 2 (2020): 338–348. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2020.05.001">https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2020.05.001</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Baumeister, Roy F., and Mark R. Leary. “The Need to Belong: Desire for Interpersonal Attachments as a Fundamental Human Motivation.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Bulletin</i></span> 117, no. 3 (1995): 497–529.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Ben-Shahar, Tal. <span class="big"><i>Happier: Learn the Secrets to Daily Joy and Lasting Fulfillment</i></span>. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2007.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bilyeu, Lisa. <span class="big"><i>Radical Confidence: 11 Lessons on How to Get the Relationship, Career, and Life You Want</i></span>. New York: Simon and Schuster, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bolte, Annette, Thomas Goschke, and Julius Kuhl. “Emotion and Intuition.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Science</i></span> 14, no. 5 (2003): 416–21. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-9280.01456">https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-9280.01456</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bolte Taylor, Jill. <span class="big"><i>My Stroke of Insight: A Brain Scientist’s Personal Journey</i></span>. New York: Viking, 2008.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bolte Taylor, Jill. <span class="big"><i>Whole Brain Living: The Anatomy of Choice and the Four Characters That Drive Our Life</i></span>. New York: Hay House, 2021.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Brach, Tara. <span class="big"><i>Radical Acceptance: Embracing Your Life with the Heart of a Buddha</i></span>. New York: Bantam, 2004.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Brehm, Jack W., and Elizabeth A. Self. “The Intensity of Motivation.” <span class="big"><i>Annual Review of Psychology</i></span> 40, no. 1 (2009): 109–131.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Brown, Brené. <span class="big"><i>Daring Greatly: How the Courage to Be Vulnerable Transforms the Way We Live, Love, Parent, and Lead</i></span>. New York: Gotham, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Brown, Brené. <span class="big"><i>I Thought It Was Just Me (but It Isn’t): Telling the Truth About Perfectionism, Inadequacy, and Power</i></span>. New York: Gotham Books, 2008.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Bryant, Erin. “Dopamine Affects How Brain Decides Whether Goal Is Worth Effort.” <span class="big"><i>NIH Research Matters</i></span>, April 17, 2017. <a href="https://www.nih.gov/news-events/nih-research-matters/dopamine-affects-how-brain-decides-whether-goal-worth-effort">www.nih.gov/news-events/nih-research-matters/dopamine-affects-how-brain-decides-whether-goal-worth-effort</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_311" title="311"/>Buunk, Bram P., and Frederick X. Gibbons. “Social Comparison: The End of a Theory and the Emergence of a Field.” <span class="big"><i>Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes</i></span> 102, no. 1 (2007): 3–21.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Buunk, Bram P., and Frederick X. Gibbons. “Social Comparison: The End of a Theory and the Emergence of a Field.” <span class="big"><i>Perspectives on Psychological Science</i></span> 9, no. 3 (2014): 234–252.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Christakis, Nicholas A., and James H. Fowler. <span class="big"><i>Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social Networks and How They Shape Our Lives</i></span>. New York, NY: Little, Brown, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Clark, C., and J. Greenberg. “Fear of Rejection and Sensitivity to Social Feedback: Implications for Mental Health.” <span class="big"><i>Clinical Psychology Review</i></span> 84 (2021): 101945.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Clark, Margaret S., and Edward P. Lemay. “Close Relationships and Well-Being: The Role of Compassionate Goals.” <span class="big"><i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i></span> 4, no. 5 (2010): 289–301.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Collins, R. L. “For Better or Worse: The Impact of Upward Social Comparison on Self-Evaluations.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Bulletin</i></span> 119, no. 1 (1996): 51–69.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Conti, Paul. <span class="big"><i>Trauma: The Invisible Epidemic: How Trauma Works and How We Can Heal from It</i></span>. New York: Sounds True, 2021.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Corcoran, Katja, and Thomas Mussweiler. “Social Comparison and Rumination: Insights into the Motivational Impact of Others’ Success.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 103, no. 4 (2012): 712–727.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Crum, Alia J., and Derek J. Phillips. “Self-Fulfilling Prophecies, Placebo Effects, and the Social-Psychological Creation of Reality.” In <span class="big"><i>Handbook of Social Psychology</i></span>, 2nd ed. Springer, 2015.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Crum, Alia J., and Ellen J. Langer. “Mindset Matters: Exercise and the Placebo Effect.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Science</i></span> 18, no. 2 (2010): 165–171.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Csikszentmihalyi, Mihaly. <span class="big"><i>Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience</i></span>. New York: Harper &amp; Row, 1990.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Damasio, Antonio R. <span class="big"><i>Descartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason, and the Human Brain</i></span>. New York: Penguin Books, 1994.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Damour, Lisa. <span class="big"><i>The Emotional Lives of Teenagers: Raising Connected, Capable, and Compassionate Adolescents</i></span>. London: Atlantic Books, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Damour, Lisa. <span class="big"><i>Under Pressure: Confronting the Epidemic of Stress and Anxiety in Girls</i></span>. London: Atlantic Books, 2019.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Damour, Lisa. <span class="big"><i>Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions into Adulthood</i></span>. London: Atlantic Books Ltd, 2016.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_312" title="312"/>Davidson, Richard J., and Sharon Begley. <span class="big"><i>The Emotional Life of Your Brain</i></span>. New York: Plume, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Day, Kristen, Corinne Carreon, and Caitlin Stump. “The Influence of the Physical Environment on Health Behavior: Implications for Cancer Survivorship.” <span class="big"><i>Public Health Reports</i></span> 126 (2011): 112–121.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Demir, Melikşah, et al. “Friendships, Psychological Well-Being, and Happiness: A Study on the Role of Socialization Goals in Emerging Adulthood.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Happiness Studies</i></span> 16, no. 6 (2015): 1559–1574.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Dijksterhuis, Ap, et al. “The Mechanisms of Social Comparison in Success and Failure Contexts.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Experimental Social Psychology</i></span> 46, no. 6 (2010): 923–929.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Duhigg, Charles. <span class="big"><i>The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business</i></span>. New York, NY: Random House, 2014.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Dunbar, Robin I. M. <span class="big"><i>How Many Friends Does One Person Need? Dunbar’s Number and Other Evolutionary Quirks</i></span>. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2010.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Dunning, David. “The Dunning-Kruger Effect: On Being Ignorant of One’s Own Ignorance.” In <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span>, vol. 44, edited by Mark P. Zanna, 247–296. Elsevier, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Durvasula, Ramani. <span class="big"><i>It’s Not You</i></span>. New York: Post Hill Press, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Durvasula, Ramani. <span class="big"><i>Should I Stay or Should I Go?: Surviving a Relationship with a Narcissist</i></span>. New York: Post Hill Press, 2015.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Dweck, Carol S. <span class="big"><i>Mindset: The New Psychology of Success</i></span>. New York: Random House, 2006.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Eagleman, David. <span class="big"><i>Livewired: The Inside Story of the Ever-Changing Brain</i></span>. New York: Pantheon Books, 2020.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Ekman, Paul. “What Scientists Who Study Emotion Agree About.” <span class="big"><i>Perspectives on Psychological Science</i></span> 11, no. 1 (2016): 31–34.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Epstein, Mark. <span class="big"><i>Thoughts Without a Thinker: Psychotherapy from a Buddhist Perspective</i></span>. New York: Basic Books, 1995.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Evans, Gary W. “The Built Environment and Mental Health.” <span class="big"><i>Annual Review of Public Health</i></span> 29, no. 1 (2011): 403–416.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">“Exercising to Relax.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Health Publishing</i></span>, February 2011. <a href="https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/exercising-to-relax">www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/exercising-to-relax</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Ferriss, Timothy. <span class="big"><i>Tools of Titans: The Tactics, Routines, and Habits of Billionaires, Icons, and World-Class Performers</i></span>. Boston: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2017.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_313" title="313"/>Festinger, Leon. “A Theory of Social Comparison Processes: Retrospective and Contemporary Perspectives.” <span class="big"><i>Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes</i></span> 123, no. 2 (2012): 100–121.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Finkel, Eli J., and Roy F. Baumeister. “Attachment and Marriage: New Developments in the Science of Close Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span> 42 (2010): 1–50.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Fiori, Katherine L., et al. “Friendship Quality in Late Adulthood: The Role of Positive and Negative Social Exchanges in Well-Being.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Aging and Health</i></span> 32, no. 3–4 (2020): 163–176.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Fishbach, Ayelet, and Stacey R. Finkelstein. “How Positive and Negative Feedback Motivate Goal Pursuit.” <span class="big"><i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i></span> 6, no. 5 (2012): 359–366.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Fogg, B.J. <span class="big"><i>Tiny Habits: The Small Changes That Change Everything</i></span>. Boston: Mariner Books, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2020.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Ford, Michael E., and Clyde W. Nichols. “A Framework for Explaining Social Cognitive Influences on Behavior.” In <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span>, vol. 52, edited by Mark P. Zanna, 193–246. Elsevier, 2015.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Frankl, Viktor E. <span class="big"><i>Man’s Search for Meaning</i></span>. New York: Washington Square Press, 1985.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gallagher, Winifred. <span class="big"><i>Rapt: Attention and the Focused Life</i></span>. New York: Penguin Books, 2009.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gallo, Amy, Shawn Achor, Michelle Gielan, and Monique Valcour. “How Your Morning Mood Affects Your Whole Workday.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Business Review</i></span>. Harvard Business School Publishing, October 5, 2016. <a href="https://hbr.org/2016/07/how-your-morning-mood-affects-your-whole-workday">https://hbr.org/2016/07/how-your-morning-mood-affects-your-whole-workday</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Garrett, Neil, and Tali Sharot. “Updating Beliefs Under Perceived Threat.” <span class="big"><i>Affective Brain Lab</i></span>, August 2018. <a href="https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Updating-Beliefs-Under-Perceived-Threat.pdf">https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/08/Updating-Beliefs-Under-Perceived-Threat.pdf</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Garrett, Neil, et al. “Updating Beliefs Under Perceived Threat.” <span class="big"><i>Nature Neuroscience</i></span> 22, no. 12 (2019): 2066–2074. <a href="https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/s41593-019-0549-2.pdf">https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/s41593-019-0549-2.pdf</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Grant, Heidi, and Carol S. Dweck. “Clarifying Achievement Goals and Their Impact.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 85, no. 3 (2009): 541–553.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Greitemeyer, Tobias. “Effects of Exposure to Others’ Opinions on Social Influence: Mechanisms of Conformity, Compliance, and Obedience.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Bulletin</i></span> 135, no. 6 (2009): 895–915.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_314" title="314"/>Gilbert, Paul. <span class="big"><i>The Compassionate Mind: A New Approach to Facing Challenges</i></span>. London: Constable &amp; Robinson, 2009.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gilbert, Paul. <span class="big"><i>The Compassionate Mind Workbook</i></span>. London: Robinson, 2010.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Goldstein, Joseph. <span class="big"><i>One Dharma: The Emerging Western Buddhism</i></span>. New York: HarperCollins, 2003.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gottman, John M. <span class="big"><i>The Relationship Cure: A 5 Step Guide to Strengthening Your Marriage, Family, and Friendships</i></span>. New York: Harmony Books, 2002.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gottman, John, Julie Gottman, and Doug Abrams. <span class="big"><i>Eight Dates: Essential Conversations for a Lifetime of Love</i></span>. New York: Workman Publishing, 2019.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gottman, John M., and Nan Silver. <span class="big"><i>The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work: A Practical Guide from the Country’s Foremost Relationship Expert</i></span>. New York: Harmony Books, 2015.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Greenfieldboyce, Nell. “The Human Brain Never Stops Growing Neurons, a New Study Claims.” <span class="big"><i>PBS NewsHour</i></span>, March 25, 2019. <a href="https://www.pbs.org/newshour/science/the-human-brain-never-stops-growing-neurons-a-new-study-claims">www.pbs.org/newshour/science/the-human-brain-never-stops-growing-neurons-a-new-study-claims</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Grenny, Joseph. “4 Things to Do Before a Tough Conversation.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Business Review</i></span>, January 22, 2019. <a href="https://hbr.org/2019/01/4-things-to-do-before-a-tough-conversation">https://hbr.org/2019/01/4-things-to-do-before-a-tough-conversation</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Gross, James J., and Ross A. Thompson. “Emotion Regulation: Conceptual Foundations.” In <span class="big"><i>Handbook of Emotion Regulation</i></span>, 2nd ed., edited by James J. Gross, 3–24. New York: Guilford Press, 2014.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Guell, Xavier, A. David G. Leslie, and Jeremy D. Schmahmann. “Functional Topography of the Human Cerebellum: A Meta-Analysis of Neuroimaging Studies.” <span class="big"><i>NeuroImage</i></span> 124 (2016): 107–118. <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5789790/">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5789790</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hall, Jeffrey A. “How Many Hours Does It Take to Make a Friend?” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Social and Personal Relationships</i></span> 36, no. 4 (2019): 1278–1296.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hamm, Jill V., and Beverly S. Faircloth. “The Role of Friendship in Adolescents’ Sense of School Belonging.” <span class="big"><i>New Directions for Child and Adolescent Development</i></span> 2015, no. 148 (2015): 61–78.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hartup, Willard W., and Nancy Stevens. “Friendships and Adaptation Across the Life Span.” <span class="big"><i>Current Directions in Psychological Science</i></span> 8, no. 3 (2011): 76–79.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hayes, Steven C., Kirk D. Strosahl, and Kelly G. Wilson. <span class="big"><i>Acceptance and Commitment Therapy: An Experiential Approach to Behavior Change</i></span>. New York: Guilford Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_315" title="315"/>Heckhausen, Jutta. “Developmental Regulation in Adulthood: Age-Normative and Sociocultural Constraints as Adaptive Challenges.” <span class="big"><i>Psychology and Aging</i></span> 27, no. 4 (2012): 937–950.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Heckhausen, Jutta, and Heinz Heckhausen, eds. <span class="big"><i>Motivation and Action</i></span>. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hill, Sarah E., and David M. Buss. “Envy and Status in Social Groups: An Evolutionary Perspective on Competition and Collaboration.” <span class="big"><i>Evolutionary Psychology</i></span> 8, no. 3 (2010): 345–368.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">“How to Strengthen Relationships Between Parents and Adult Children.” <span class="big"><i>American Psychological Association</i></span>, May 18, 2023. <a href="https://www.apa.org/news/podcasts/speaking-of-psychology/parent-adult-children-relationships">www.apa.org/news/podcasts/speaking-of-psychology/parent-adult-children-relationships</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hussey, Matthew. <span class="big"><i>Love Life: How to Raise Your Standards, Find Your Person, and Live Happily (No Matter What)</i></span>. London: HarperCollins UK, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Hyun, Jinshil, Martin J. Sliwinski, and Joshua M. Smyth. “Waking Up on the Wrong Side of the Bed: The Effects of Stress Anticipation on Working Memory in Daily Life.” <span class="big"><i>The Journals of Gerontology: Series B</i></span>, 2018. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/geronb/gby042">https://doi.org/10.1093/geronb/gby042</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Insel, Thomas R. “The NIMH Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) Project: Precision Medicine for Psychiatry.” <span class="big"><i>American Journal of Psychiatry</i></span> 171, no. 4 (2014): 395–97. <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5854216/">www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5854216/</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kabat-Zinn, Jon. <span class="big"><i>Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness</i></span>. New York: Delacorte Press, 1990.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Johnson, M. D., and Franz J. Neyer. “(Eventual) Stability and Change Across Partnerships.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Family Psychology</i></span> 33, no. 6 (2019): 711–721. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1037/fam0000523">https://doi.org/10.1037/fam0000523</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Johnson, Colleen L., and Lillian E. Troll. “Friends and Aging: The Interplay of Intimacy and Distance.” <span class="big"><i>Generations</i></span> 36, no. 1 (2012): 32–39.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kabat-Zinn, Jon. <span class="big"><i>Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life</i></span>. New York: Hachette Books, 2013.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kahneman, Daniel. <span class="big"><i>Thinking, Fast and Slow</i></span>. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kanfer, Ruth, and Gilad Chen. “Motivation in Organizational Behavior: Insights and Directions.” <span class="big"><i>Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes</i></span> 136 (2016): 121–133.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kanojia, Alok. <span class="big"><i>How to Raise a Healthy Gamer: Break Bad Screen Habits, End Power Struggles, and Transform Your Relationship with Your Kids</i></span>. London: Pan Macmillan, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_316" title="316"/>Kaplan, Rachel, and Stephen Kaplan. <span class="big"><i>The Experience of Nature: A Psychological Perspective</i></span>. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Koob, George F., and Nora D. Volkow. “Neurobiology of Addiction: A Neurocircuitry Analysis.” <span class="big"><i>The Lancet Psychiatry</i></span> 3, no. 8 (2016): 760–773.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kross, Ethan, and Ozlem Ayduk. “Self-Distancing: Theory, Research, and Current Directions.” <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span> 55 (2017): 81–136.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Kurth-Nelson, Zeb, et al. “Computational Approaches to Neuroscience: Modeling Belief Updating Under Threat.” <span class="big"><i>PLoS Computational Biology</i></span> 15, no. 2 (2019). <a href="https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007089#ack">https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007089#ack</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">La Guardia, Jennifer G., and Richard M. Ryan. <span class="big"><i>Self-Determination Theory: Basic Psychological Needs in Motivation, Development, and Wellness</i></span>. New York: Guilford Press, 2013.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Lavy, Shiri, and Hadassah Littman-Ovadia. “The Effect of Love on Personal Growth and Self-Perception in Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Positive Psychology</i></span> 6, no. 3 (2011): 209–216.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Leary, Mark R., and Roy F. Baumeister. “The Nature and Function of Self-Esteem: Sociometer Theory.” In <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span>, vol. 32, edited by Mark P. Zanna, 1–62. Elsevier, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Leary, Mark R., and Roy F. Baumeister. “The Nature and Function of Self-Esteem: Sociometer Theory.” In <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span>, Vol. 32, edited by Mark P. Zanna, 1–62. New York: Academic Press, 1995.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">LeDoux, Joseph. <span class="big"><i>The Emotional Brain: The Mysterious Underpinnings of Emotional Life</i></span>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1996.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Levine, Peter A., and Gabor Maté. <span class="big"><i>In an Unspoken Voice: How the Body Releases Trauma and Restores Goodness</i></span>. Berkeley, CA: North Atlantic Books, 2010.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Levitt, Mary J., et al. “Close Relationships Across the Life Span.” <span class="big"><i>Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cognitive Science</i></span> 2, no. 1 (2011): 1–12.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">LeWine, Howard E., M. D. “Understanding the Stress Response.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Health</i></span>. Harvard Medical School, July 6, 2020. <a href="https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/understanding-the-stress-response">www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/understanding-the-stress-response</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Luthar, Suniya S., and Natasha L. Kumar. “Friendship Quality, Social Skills, and Resilience in Adolescence.” <span class="big"><i>Child Development</i></span> 89, no. 3 (2018): 876–890.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Lyons, Scott. <span class="big"><i>Addicted to Drama: Healing Dependency on Crisis and Chaos in Yourself and Others</i></span>. New York: Hachette Go, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_317" title="317"/>Lyubomirsky, Sonja, et al. “Why Are Some People Happier Than Others? The Role of Cognitive and Motivational Processes in Well-Being.” <span class="big"><i>American Psychologist</i></span> 56, no. 3 (2011): 239–249.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Maddux, James E. <span class="big"><i>Self-Efficacy, Adaptation, and Adjustment: Theory, Research, and Application</i></span>. Springer, 2013.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Margaret Mead, quoted in <span class="big"><i>The World Ahead: An Anthropologist Anticipates the Future</i></span>, edited by Ruth Nanda Anshen, 24. New York: Berghahn Books, 2000.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Marsh, Herbert W., and John W. Parker. “Determinants of Student Self-Concept: Is It Better to Be a Relatively Large Fish in a Small Pond Even If You Don’t Learn to Swim as Well?” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 47, no. 1 (1984): 213–231.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Marques, Luana. <span class="big"><i>Bold Move: A 3-Step Plan to Transform Anxiety into Power</i></span>. London: Hachette UK, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">McGonigal, Kelly. <span class="big"><i>The Willpower Instinct</i></span>. New York: Avery, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">McPherson, Miller, Lynn Smith-Lovin, and Matthew E. Brashears. “Social Isolation in America: Changes in Core Discussion Networks Over Two Decades.” <span class="big"><i>American Sociological Review</i></span> 74, no. 3 (2009): 353–375.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Miller, William R., and Stephen Rollnick. <span class="big"><i>Motivational Interviewing: Helping People Change</i></span>. 3rd ed. New York: Guilford Press, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Mikulincer, Mario, and Phillip R. Shaver. <span class="big"><i>Attachment in Adulthood: Structure, Dynamics, and Change</i></span>. 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Press, 2016.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Mineo, Liz. “Over Nearly 80 Years, Harvard Study Has Been Showing How to Live a Healthy and Happy Life.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Gazette</i></span>, April 11, 2017. <a href="https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2017/04/over-nearly-80-years-harvard-study-has-been-showing-how-to-live-a-healthy-and-happy-life/">https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2017/04/over-nearly-80-years-harvard-study-has-been-showing-how-to-live-a-healthy-and-happy-life</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Mora, Florentina, Sergio Segovia, and José R. Del Arco. “Aging, Stress, and the Hippocampus.” <span class="big"><i>Aging Research Reviews</i></span> 11, no. 2 (April 2012): 123–129. <a href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23403892/">https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23403892</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Morin, Alexandre J. S., and Christophe Maïano. “The Social Comparison Process and Its Implications for Goal Pursuit and Achievement Motivation.” <span class="big"><i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i></span> 5, no. 6 (2011): 359–374.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Murray, Sandra L., and John G. Holmes. <span class="big"><i>Interdependent Minds: The Dynamics of Close Relationships</i></span>. New York: Guilford Press, 2013.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Murray, Sandra L., and Jennifer L. Derrick. “The Power of Reassurance: How Emotional Security Impacts Commitment in Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 100, no. 4 (2011): 575–592.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_318" title="318"/>Mussweiler, Thomas. “Comparison Processes in Social Judgment: Mechanisms and Consequences.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Review</i></span> 109, no. 3 (2012): 472–489.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Neff, Kristin D. <span class="big"><i>Self-Compassion: The Proven Power of Being Kind to Yourself</i></span>. New York: HarperCollins, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Nerurkar, Aditi. <span class="big"><i>The 5 Resets: Rewire Your Brain and Body for Less Stress and More Resilience</i></span>. London: HarperCollins UK, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Norbury, Agnes, and Raymond J. Dolan. “Anticipatory Neural Activity Predicts Attenuated Learning in Perceived Threat.” <span class="big"><i>Nature Neuroscience</i></span> 22, no. 3 (2019): 437–448. <a href="https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/41562_2019_793_OnlinePDF_2.pdf">https://affectivebrain.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/41562_2019_793_OnlinePDF_2.pdf</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Oettingen, Gabriele, Doris Mayer, A. Timur Sevincer, Elizabeth J. Stephens, Hyeon-ju Pak, and Meike Hagenah. “Mental Contrasting and Goal Commitment: The Mediating Role of Energization.” <span class="big"><i>Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin</i></span> 35, no. 5 (2009): 608–22. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167208330856">https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167208330856</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Oettingen, Gabriele, Hyeon-ju Pak, and Karoline Schnetter. “Self-Regulation of Goal-Setting: Turning Free Fantasies about the Future into Binding Goals.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 80, no. 5 (2001): 736–53. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.80.5.736">https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.80.5.736</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Oliver, Mary. “The Summer Day.” In <span class="big"><i>New and Selected Poems</i></span>, 94. Boston: Beacon Press, 1992.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Oswald, Debra L., and Elizabeth M. Clark. “Best Friends Forever? High School Best Friendships and Adult Friendship Development.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Adolescence</i></span> 84 (2020): 153–165.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Pilat, Dan, and Krastev, Sekoul M.D., “Why Do We Take Mental Shortcuts?” <span class="big"><i>The Decision Lab</i></span>. The Decision Lab, January 27, 2021. <a href="https://thedecisionlab.com/biases/heuristics">https://thedecisionlab.com/biases/heuristics</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Platt, Michael L., et al. “Beyond Utility: Social and Biological Roots of Decision-Making in the Brain.” <span class="big"><i>Nature Neuroscience</i></span> 19, no. 10 (2016): 1303–1310.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Porges, Stephen W. <span class="big"><i>The Polyvagal Theory: Neurophysiological Foundations of Emotions, Attachment, Communication, and Self-Regulation</i></span>. New York: W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Reeve, Johnmarshall. <span class="big"><i>Understanding Motivation and Emotion</i></span>. 7th ed. New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2018.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Reis, Harry T., and Susan L. Gable. “Social Support and the Regulation of Personal Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</i></span> 52 (2015): 201–245.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_319" title="319"/>Roberts, Sarah Jakes. <span class="big"><i>Power Moves: Ignite Your Confidence and Become a Force</i></span>. Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Aditi Nerurkar. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, May 23, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/1-stress-doctor-5-tools-to-protect-your-brain-from/id1646101002?i=1000656467802">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/1-stress-doctor-5-tools-to-protect-your-brain-from/id1646101002?i=1000656467802</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Alok Kanojia. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, June 5, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000657879202">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000657879202</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Alok Kanojia. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, September 2, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000668009088">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000668009088</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Lisa Bilyeu. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, March 28, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000650685813">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000650685813</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Lisa Damour. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, May 18, 2023. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000613472370">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000613472370</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Luana Marques. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, July 20, 2023. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000621712441">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000621712441</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Matthew Hussey. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, May 27, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbinspodcast/id1646101002?i=1000656851968">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbinspodcast/id1646101002?i=1000656851968</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Robert Waldinger. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, April 4, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbinspodcast/id1646101002?i=1000651381441">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbinspodcast/id1646101002?i=1000651381441</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. Interview with Sarah Jakes Roberts. <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span>, podcast audio, July 25, 2024. <a href="https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000663279637">https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-mel-robbins-podcast/id1646101002?i=1000663279637</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. <span class="big"><i>The 5 Second Rule: Transform Your Life, Work, and Confidence with Everyday Courage</i></span>. Brentwood, TN: Savio Republic, 2017.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Robbins, Mel. <span class="big"><i>The High 5 Habit</i></span>. Carlsbad, CA: Hay House, 2021.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Rusbult, Caryl E., and Paul A. M. Van Lange. “Why Do Relationships Persist? The Role of Investment in Long-Term Commitment.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Science</i></span> 22, no. 7 (2010): 135–140.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_320" title="320"/>Ryan, Richard M., and Edward L. Deci. “Promoting Self-Determined Relationships and Well-Being.” <span class="big"><i>Educational Psychologist</i></span> 44, no. 2 (2009): 73–85.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sangwan, Neha. <span class="big"><i>Powered by Me: From Burned Out to Fully Charged at Work and in Life</i></span>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sapolsky, Robert M. <span class="big"><i>Why Zebras Don’t Get Ulcers</i></span>. New York: Henry Holt and Co., 2004.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Schore, Allan N. <span class="big"><i>Affect Regulation and the Repair of the Self</i></span>. New York: W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 2003.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Schwartz, Barry. <span class="big"><i>The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less</i></span>. New York: Harper Perennial, 2004.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Seligman, Martin. <span class="big"><i>Authentic Happiness: Using the New Positive Psychology to Realize Your Potential for Lasting Fulfillment</i></span>. New York: Atria Paperback, 2013.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Siegel, Daniel J. <span class="big"><i>The Developing Mind: How Relationships and the Brain Interact to Shape Who We Are</i></span>. 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Press, 2012.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Seligman, Martin E. P. <span class="big"><i>Flourish: A Visionary New Understanding of Happiness and Well-Being</i></span>. New York: Free Press, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">“Self-Acceptance Could Be the Key to a Happier Life, Yet It’s the Happy Habit Many People Practice the Least.” <span class="big"><i>ScienceDaily</i></span>. University of Hertfordshire, March 7, 2014. <a href="https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/03/140307111016.htm">www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2014/03/140307111016.htm</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Seneca. <span class="big"><i>Letters from a Stoic</i></span>. Translated by Robin Campbell. New York: Penguin Classics, 2004.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Shapiro, Ron. “How to Have Difficult Conversations Without Burning Bridges.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Business Review</i></span>, May 15, 2023. <a href="https://hbr.org/2023/05/how-to-have-difficult-conversations-without-burning-bridges">https://hbr.org/2023/05/how-to-have-difficult-conversations-without-burning-bridges</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sharot, Tali. <span class="big"><i>The Influential Mind: What the Brain Reveals About Our Power to Change Others</i></span>. London: Hachette UK, 2017.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sharot, Tali. <span class="big"><i>The Optimism Bias: A Tour of the Irrationally Positive Brain</i></span>. New York: Vintage, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sharot, Tali, and Cass R. Sunstein. <span class="big"><i>Look Again: The Power of Noticing What Was Always There</i></span>. New York: Simon and Schuster, 2024.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Smith, James M., and Nicholas A. Christakis. “Social Networks and Health.” <span class="big"><i>Annual Review of Sociology</i></span> 36 (2010): 435–457.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Sprecher, Susan, and Pamela C. Regan. “The Importance of Friendship in Romantic Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i></span> 8, no. 8 (2014): 412–425.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_321" title="321"/>Sprecher, Susan, and Pamela C. Regan. “The Importance of Reciprocity and Self-Respect in Romantic Relationships.” <span class="big"><i>Personal Relationships</i></span> 8, no. 4 (2014): 419–435.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Swart, Tara B. “Impact of Cortisol on Social Stress and Health.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Neuroscience Research</i></span> 129, no. 2 (2023): 304–15.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Swart Bieber, Tara. <span class="big"><i>The Source: The Secrets of the Universe, the Science of the Brain</i></span>. London: Vermilion, 2019.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Tannen, Deborah. <span class="big"><i>You Just Don’t Understand: Women and Men in Conversation</i></span>. New York: HarperCollins, 2011.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Tesser, Abraham, and Richard H. Smith. “The Meaning of Success: The Social Psychology of Competition and Achievement.” <span class="big"><i>Annual Review of Psychology</i></span> 65 (2014): 519–546.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Tolle, Eckhart. <span class="big"><i>The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment</i></span>. Vancouver: New World Library, 2004.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Tsabary, Shefali. <span class="big"><i>The Conscious Parent: Transforming Ourselves, Empowering Our Children</i></span>. Vancouver: Namaste Publishing, 2010.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Ulrich, Roger S. “Evidence-Based Health-Care Architecture.” <span class="big"><i>The Lancet</i></span> 370, no. 9597 (2011): 139–140.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Updegraff, John A., and Shelley E. Taylor. “From Vulnerability to Growth: The Influence of Successful Others on Personal Growth in the Face of Challenge.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 102, no. 5 (2013): 936–948.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Vaillant, George E. “Involuntary Coping Mechanisms: A Psychodynamic Perspective.” <span class="big"><i>Harvard Review of Psychiatry</i></span> 19, no. 3 (2011): 148–152.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Van Bavel, Jay J., and Dominic J. Packer. “The Power of Us: Intergroup Situations and Group-Based Persuasion.” <span class="big"><i>Social and Personality Psychology Compass</i></span> 10, no. 8 (2016): 409–420.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">van der Kolk, Bessel. <span class="big"><i>The Body Keeps the Score: Brain, Mind, and Body in the Healing of Trauma</i></span>. New York: Viking, 2014.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">van der Kolk, Bessel, Alexander C. McFarlane, and Lars Weisæth, eds. <span class="big"><i>Traumatic Stress: The Effects of Overwhelming Experience on Mind, Body, and Society</i></span>. New York: Guilford Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Van Dijk, Wilco W., and Marcel Zeelenberg. “The Paradox of Envy: Comparing Ourselves with Better-Off Others May Cause Personal Growth.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 86, no. 2 (2014): 192–203.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_322" title="322"/>Vogel, E. A., J. P. Rose, L. R. Roberts, and K. Eckles. “Social Comparison, Social Media, and Self-Esteem.” <span class="big"><i>Psychology of Popular Media Culture</i></span> 3, no. 4 (2014): 206–222. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1037/ppm0000047">https://doi.org/10.1037/ppm0000047</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Vohs, Kathleen D., et al. “Decision Fatigue Exhausts Self-Regulatory Resources—But So Does Accommodating to Unrealistic Social Expectations.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></span> 104, no. 6 (2014): 940–950.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Vohs, Kathleen D., and Roy F. Baumeister, eds. <span class="big"><i>Handbook of Self-Regulation: Research, Theory, and Applications</i></span>. 2nd ed. New York: Guilford Publications, 2016.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Waldinger, Robert, and Marc Schulz. <span class="big"><i>The Good Life: Lessons from the World’s Longest Study on Happiness</i></span>. New York: Random House, 2023.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">White, Katherine, and Darrin R. Lehman. “Culture and Social Comparison Seeking: The Role of Self-Motives.” <span class="big"><i>Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin</i></span> 31, no. 2 (2005): 232–242. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167204271326">https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167204271326</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Willis, Judy. “The Neuroscience behind Stress and Learning.” <span class="big"><i>Nature Partner Journal Science of Learning</i></span>. Nature Publishing Group, October 16, 2016. <a href="https://npjscilearncommunity.nature.com/posts/12735-the-neuroscience-behind-stress-and-learning">https://npjscilearncommunity.nature.com/posts/12735-the-neuroscience-behind-stress-and-learning</a>.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Willis, Judy. “What You Should Know About Your Brain.” <span class="big"><i>Educational Leadership</i></span> 67, no. 4 (January 2010).</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Wiseman, Richard. <span class="big"><i>The Luck Factor</i></span>. New York: Miramax Books, 2003.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Wood, Alex M., et al. “The Role of Gratitude in the Development of Social Support, Stress, and Depression: Two Longitudinal Studies.” <span class="big"><i>Journal of Research in Personality</i></span> 45, no. 4 (2011): 466–474.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Wood, Joanne V., and Abraham Tesser. “Ruminating on Unchangeable Success: Downward Social Comparison and Self-Improvement Strategies.” <span class="big"><i>European Journal of Social Psychology</i></span> 41, no. 4 (2011): 387–396.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Wrzus, Cornelia, et al. “Social Network Changes and Life Events Across the Life Span: A Meta-Analysis.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Bulletin</i></span> 139, no. 1 (2013): 53–80.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Zaki, Jamil. “Empathy: A Motivated Account.” <span class="big"><i>Psychological Bulletin</i></span> 140, no. 6 (2014): 1608–1647.</p>
<p class="tx1-1">Zaki, Jamil. <span class="big"><i>The War for Kindness: Building Empathy in a Fractured World</i></span>. New York: Crown Publishing, 2019.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>