<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<link href="styles/custom.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>The Let Them Theory: A Life-Changing Tool That Millions of People Can’t Stop Talking About</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b0b1ab8d-79fd-4cb5-92a2-3344635d5884" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="backmatter">
<h1 class="cn"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_293" title="293"/><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-8" id="pz9-8_1">CONCLUSION</a></h1>
<p class="ct"><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-8">Your Let Me Era Is Here</a></p>
<p class="tx1-1">You and I have spent a lot of this book talking about others: their opinions, their emotions, and the ways their actions annoy, anger, frustrate, or disappoint you. But this book isn’t really about other people. It’s about you.</p>
<p class="tx">If you think it’s about them, you’ve missed the point. If you still think other people are the problem, you need to go back and read this entire book again. The truth is simple: YOU hold the power. And YOU are the one who has been giving it away.</p>
<p class="tx">Imagine standing beneath a sky that’s constantly shifting—sometimes clear and blue, other times filled with clouds, or rumbling with storms. You’ve spent so much time and energy trying to keep that sky clear, wishing away the clouds, hoping for endless sunshine. But the sky doesn’t care what you want. It will do what it does, with or without your input.</p>
<p class="tx">The breakthrough moment comes when you realize this: The sky’s beauty isn’t diminished by the presence of clouds or storms. In fact, it’s the variety, the unpredictability, that makes it truly magnificent. The <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_294" title="294"/>storms highlight the calm; the clouds make the sun more precious. The same is true for your life.</p>
<p class="tx">You’ve been trying to control the uncontrollable, trying to force the world to conform to your expectations. But what if, instead, you focused on your own response to whatever the world throws your way? You can’t change the weather. But you can change how it impacts you.</p>
<p class="tx">No matter what happens around you, you decide how it will affect you.</p>
<p class="tx">You decide if a comment from a loved one destroys your self-esteem or rolls off your back. You decide if all the bad dates you’ve been on cause you to lower your standards or become even more discerning. You decide if someone else’s success makes you quit or inspires you to work even harder.</p>
<p class="tx">It’s that simple. You have the power.</p>
<p class="tx">This realization is like finally understanding the true nature of the sky. The clouds that once frustrated you are now seen as part of a larger, ever-changing masterpiece. The storms that once frightened you are now moments of power and beauty, teaching you resilience and strength. You start to see that the sky’s unpredictability is what makes it so magnificent, so endlessly fascinating.</p>
<p class="tx">Think about that for a moment. The sky will do what it does—clouds will gather, storms will come, and the sun will shine when it pleases. You can’t control it, but you can control how you navigate beneath it. You can carry an umbrella; you can dance in the rain; you can chase the sun when you need to.</p>
<p class="tx">The people and situations around you are like the weather. The fact is, you can never control other people—how they think, how they act, whether or not they love you, or how fast they check you out at the grocery store.</p>
<p class="tx"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_295" title="295"/>So why on earth would you ever give them the level of control over you that you have been?</p>
<p class="tx">Why would you ever entrust something as precious as your confidence, your peace of mind, your happiness, and your dreams to the whims and moods of the people around you?</p>
<p class="tx">If you don’t use <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>, you are allowing yourself to be impacted by the worries, actions, insecurities, and opinions of others. If you don’t use <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span>, you are leaving the things you want in life up to chance.</p>
<p class="tx">Ask yourself, and I mean really ask yourself: If all the energy and time you spent resisting reality—wanting lines to move faster, wanting people to text you back, wanting your boss to recognize your worth, wanting more friends, wanting people to like you, wanting your family to support your career change—if all those thoughts, feelings, and precious moments in your day were put toward something that truly mattered to you, where would you be? Who would you be? What would you have achieved?</p>
<p class="tx">THAT is the cost of not using <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>.</p>
<p class="tx">Now think about all the missed opportunities—the people you wished you had introduced yourself to, the career you wanted to pursue, the music, the stand-up, the book you never wrote, the photo you never posted, the trip you didn’t book, the thing you were afraid to say, the person you were afraid to love.</p>
<p class="tx">THAT is the cost of not using <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span>.</p>
<p class="tx">Can you really afford that price? I know I can’t.</p>
<p class="tx">We all love to think of excuses for why people who have what we want are somehow different from us: They were born into money. They are more attractive. Their life has been easier. They’ve gotten lucky.</p>
<p class="tx">I’m sorry to break it to you, but that is a cop-out. There is no difference between you and the people you see achieving extraordinary things. They aren’t special.</p>
<p class="tx"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_296" title="296"/>But there’s one thing for sure they’ve figured out: They don’t let the world around them derail their dreams. They’ve learned to navigate the sky, to accept the weather as it comes, and to keep moving toward their goals no matter what. At some point, they got sick and tired of worrying about what everybody else thought and just forced themselves to get to work.</p>
<p class="tx">They are laser focused on waking up every day and proving, over and over through their actions, that they are worthy and deserving of the vision they have for their life.</p>
<p class="tx">Every day that you allow your fear of somebody else’s opinion, stress over friendships, or concern about how someone will react to prevent you from making the phone call, filling out the application, working on the business plan, starting the diet, or putting in the effort, you’re holding yourself back. You’re robbing yourself of your potential. You’re standing still while life moves on around you.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop wasting your brain space on the million tiny things that don’t matter. It’s time to use every second of your day for all the amazing things you know you’re capable of.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop letting the fear of what people might think paralyze you. It’s time to go after your dreams boldly, relentlessly, and unapologetically.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop tiptoeing around everyone else’s emotions. It’s time to fiercely protect your own peace.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop letting other people’s success devastate you. It’s time to get to work.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop making your social life everyone else’s responsibility. It’s time to build the most incredible friendships you’ve ever had.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop trying to change people who don’t want to change. It’s time to let adults be adults.</p>
<p class="tx">Stop trying to rescue those who are struggling. It’s time to let others heal how they need to heal.</p>
<p class="tx"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_297" title="297"/>Stop wasting your time trying to get people to love you. It’s time to choose the love you deserve.</p>
<p class="tx">It’s finally time to reclaim your power and reclaim your life.</p>
<p class="tx">The Let Them Theory is your key to taking back your power.</p>
<p class="tx">You can have the life you’ve always wanted. You can be a millionaire.</p>
<p class="tx">You can have the beautiful love story you’ve always dreamed of. You can build a career that challenges and fulfills you.</p>
<p class="tx">The question is, will YOU let yourself do it?</p>
<p class="tx">Because no one else can stop you. It’s all on you.</p>
<p class="tx">The most important part of the Let Them Theory is understanding that you are responsible for your own happiness. You are responsible for the energy you bring and how you show up. You are responsible for waking up every day and doing the work to make progress on what matters. You are responsible for defining what matters to you. You are responsible for telling the truth even when it’s really hard. You are responsible for paying for your life. Nobody owes you anything, but you owe yourself everything.</p>
<p class="tx">If you’re not where you want to be, the great news is, it’s all your fault. The even better news is, the second you decide to, you can change it.</p>
<p class="tx">You’ve wasted so many years being so consumed with other people, their feelings, their thoughts, and what they’re doing. So let this book be your wake-up call: You are in charge.</p>
<p class="tx">This realization is not a condemnation, it’s a liberation.</p>
<p class="tx">Isn’t it incredible to know that others can’t affect you? Isn’t it liberating to know that they can say and do what they want—they can make fun, doubt, be the most successful person on this planet, and you remain unbothered?</p>
<p class="tx"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_298" title="298"/>How amazing is it that YOU get to be in control of what you think, what you say, and what you do?</p>
<p class="tx">How unbelievable is it that YOU get to choose where you pour your time and energy, and what you say yes to and what you say no to?</p>
<p class="tx">Taking back your power means reclaiming responsibility for your life. It means demanding more of yourself because time is ticking, and you’ve wasted enough of it worrying about things that don’t matter. It means being laser focused on the things you can control, and not giving a single second to the things you can’t.</p>
<p class="tx">Think of the sky once more. No matter what it brings, no matter how it changes, you are the one who gets to decide how to navigate beneath it. You are the one who gets to choose how to respond, how to act, how to live. The clouds, the storms, the sunshine—they all have their place, but they do not define you. You define yourself.</p>
<p class="tx">I won’t lie to you: It won’t be easy. It’s not like the second you start saying <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>, you get everything you’ve ever wanted. Anyone who promises you that is lying to you.</p>
<p class="tx">But the second you take your power back, you can take comfort in the knowledge that it’s just a matter of time. The career, the partner, the friends, the body, the goals—they are now all in your control.</p>
<p class="tx">Now that we’re here, I am so incredibly excited to personally welcome you to your <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> era.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> get started.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> take a risk.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> write the book.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> be honest about what I want.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> get in the best shape of my life.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> apply for the dream job.</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> stop giving love to people who don’t want me back.</p>
<p class="tx"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_299" title="299"/><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> create a better life. A life that makes me proud. A life that makes me happy. A life where I use my precious energy to enjoy every single moment I will have.</p>
<p class="tx">This book has shown you that you’ve always had control. You’ve always been in charge. You’ve always had the power. Now, it’s time to take it back.</p>
<p class="tx">I want you to know that whatever that big dream you see for yourself is, however crazy, unlikely, or silly it may seem, I see it for you. If you don’t believe in you, <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> believe in you. If you don’t know you can do it, <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> know it for you.</p>
<p class="tx">And if you don’t know where to start, <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> help you take the first step. In case nobody else tells you, I want to be sure to tell you: I love you, I believe in you, and I believe in your ability to unlock all the magic and joy that your amazing life has to offer.</p>
<p class="tx">All it takes is two simple words:</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span>.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>