<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<link href="styles/custom.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>The Let Them Theory: A Life-Changing Tool That Millions of People Can’t Stop Talking About</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b0b1ab8d-79fd-4cb5-92a2-3344635d5884" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="backmatter">
<h1 class="ct-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_301" title="301"/><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-12" id="pz9-12_1">How to Apply Let Them to Teams</a></h1>
<p class="tx1-1">Over the years, I’ve had the opportunity to work with some of the world’s biggest companies, including Starbucks, JPMorganChase, Headspace, Audible, Ulta Beauty, and more.</p>
<p class="tx">One of the most common questions I’ve been asked is: <span class="big"><i>How do I motivate my team?</i></span></p>
<p class="tx">The research is clear—having a good boss is what creates good teams. So what makes for a good boss? That’s where the Let Them Theory comes in. You may be thinking, <span class="big"><i>You can’t just let your team do whatever they want—they need to be managed</i></span>. True, but when you micromanage, you risk stifling creativity, damaging relationships, and creating a toxic work environment.</p>
<p class="tx">In other words, a controlling boss is a bad boss.</p>
<p class="tx">The Let Them Theory can help you find the right balance, empowering your team while providing the structure they need to thrive. After all, bad bosses kill good teams, and good bosses make great teams. In this special bonus guide, you’ll learn how to use the Let Them Theory to be as good a boss as you can be.</p>
<p class="tx">Download it at <b><a href="http://melrobbins.com/work">melrobbins.com/work</a></b> to get started.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>