<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<link href="styles/custom.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>The Let Them Theory: A Life-Changing Tool That Millions of People Can’t Stop Talking About</title>
<meta content="urn:uuid:b0b1ab8d-79fd-4cb5-92a2-3344635d5884" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="backmatter">
<h1 class="ct-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_303" title="303"/><a href="content-toc.xhtml#pz9-13" id="pz9-13_1">Let Me Acknowledge You</a></h1>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>To the millions of fans of <i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i> and everyone of you on social media, who either follows me or has shared content from the “lady with the glasses”—</b>thank you! Without you I wouldn’t get to do what I love most. You are the reason this book exists. Your support, passion, love, and (of course) your tattoos inspired me to do something I swore I would never do again: write another book. Thank you for being a part of this incredible journey. Thank you for helping me create what I believe is the single most important piece of work I have ever done. One thing is certain, I wrote this book for you and it is yours as much as it is mine. I cannot wait to see how this book helps you improve your life and your relationships. You deserve more love, meaning, joy, and peace in your life, and the Let Them Theory will help you achieve it.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>All the experts who have appeared on <i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i> and in the pages of this book—</b>thank you for hopping on planes and flying to Boston to sit down and spend time with me. I have learned so much from each and every one of you. Whether your research is cited directly in this book and bibliography, or not, know this; meeting, speaking, and learning from you has shaped every word and helped me improve my life. On behalf of everyone who will read this book, and every single listener of <span class="big"><i>The Mel Robbins Podcast</i></span> in 194 countries, thank you. Thank you for your work; thank you for sharing your wisdom with us.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_304" title="304"/><b>Sawyer—</b>my brilliant daughter, co-conspirator, co-researcher, co-writer, and co-pilot—you swore you would NEVER work for your mother, and here we are. I wake up every day grateful that you said yes when I asked “if you could help me with a ‘small research project’. . . it’s called the Let Them Theory.” You dove in and never came back up for air. It has been one of the most fulfilling experiences of my life to not only be your mom but to now get to know you as a colleague. I love you deeply and I love every moment of working with you, even though I know you are having to say <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>, <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span>, <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span> (about me) the entire time.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Tracey—</b>my right-hand, right-brain, sentence-finisher, and executive producer extraordinaire—Where would I be without you? Lost at sea. You keep this ship afloat. Your single best quality: I have never once seen you with a frown on your face or a negative attitude; thank you for always bringing the sun. After eight years I am so grateful for your calm, steady hand guiding the way through this wild adventure.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Susie—</b>thank you for bringing fun and storytelling into the writing process. You’ve made me a better writer. You’ve added so much depth and soul to this project, and your work is an undeniable part of the book’s heart. You are an OG, and this book wouldn’t be where it is without you. I am so happy it brought us together and thrilled to know that this partnership is just beginning.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Juna—</b>you came in like a whirlwind, impressing me daily with your incredible writing skills. Your ability to nail down the language, the power, and the vibe of this book was remarkable. You were essential in shaping this story into something powerful. I absolutely love the way you think!</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Lynne—</b>you know that feeling when someone shows up in your life and you realize what has been missing. . . that is you Lynne. You filled <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_305" title="305"/>a need in my life, and it is only in working with you that I now realize what true support and excellence feels and looks like. You set the bar impossibly high. I don’t think I could do this job without you. Now, please put down your phone and turn off your laptop. . . stop working. . . and enjoy your weekend! I am not going anywhere, neither are you, so get some rest while you can. &lt;3</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Cindy—</b>to our ROCKSTAR in pink Crocs and matching lipstick with the best Boston accent you have ever heard, I love you from the bottom of my heart. From the moment you walked into our lives, you brought so much joy and laughter. I never thought at the age of 56 I would find a “house mom” in real life—you know the amazing human who takes care of an entire sorority—that is you! You might as well be named Cindy Robbins and at this point Yolo and Homie get more excited when you walk in than when I do.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Amy &amp; Jessie—</b>to the OGs up here in Vermont. We first bonded over how much we HATED living in VT and had no idea what the heck we’d do in this tiny rural town. Moving here wasn’t a coincidence; it was synchronicity. Over the past four years we have laughed, cried, and pushed our way through every obstacle—one cold plunge and card pull at a time (Amazing Amy!). And along the way, we managed to launch the single “fastest growing podcast” on the planet, from above our garage in the middle of nowhere. There’s something magical about meeting some of your most favorite people later in life. And you are two of mine. I have a feeling this next chapter is going to be the most divine and epic one yet. The most surprising part is we absolutely love living here now.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Melody—</b>our editor, copyediting champion, and fellow cool-eyeglass fashionista—thank you for gracefully managing my many, many late-night, last-minute delays. You always showed up with a smile and <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_306" title="306"/>made sure this book was polished and perfect. I owe you a mountain of coffee and endless gratitude.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Marc—</b>you already know how much I adore you. Not only did you make this book possible but you also ensured that its message would reach readers around the globe, with translations in languages far beyond the borders of the U.S. You are the best, a genius at making deals and helping me be the first author to do the “things” we do, the unique way we do them (top secret everyone)—I’m forever grateful. ;)</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Christine—</b>my sister-in-law, business partner, fellow Australian shepherd lover, and best friend—thank you for being my rock. I’m sorry I have had so many meltdowns over the writing of this book. I am embarrassed by all the emotional texts and late-night venting I did at you. No one on the planet needs the part of this book about managing emotions more than I do. Thank you for having so much grace. Thank you for guiding our company from an out-of-control start-up to a world-class business and global powerhouse in personal development. I am so proud of you. I am proud to be your partner. And I am so proud of what we’ve built together. I couldn’t have done it without knowing you always have my back and our best interest at heart. I wake up every day and say to myself: <span class="big"><i>Can you believe we get to do this for a living?</i></span> I can always hear you say in the back of my mind: We are magical b*tches<span class="big"><i>.</i></span></p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Chris—</b>thank you for always going camping during the <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span> marathon writing weeks. A book can’t be bound without a spine and you are that for me. You hold our family together. The thing I love most about my life is that I get to spend it with you.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Kendall and Oakley—</b>based on what you have heard about how grueling this book process has been I can imagine you were grateful that you were at college and in LA as Sawyer and I duked it out. You have always supported me in pursuing my dreams, and know this: <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_307" title="307"/>Whatever it is that you choose to do with your lives, I’ll be there every step of the way to cheer you on.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Mom and Dad—</b>Mom: I think you get credit for instilling me with the <span class="big"><i>Let Me</i></span> spirit as a little girl. As I wrote this book, I kept thinking about that needlepoint pillow you stitched with the saying: <span class="big"><i>Pull Up Your Big Girl Panties And Deal With It</i></span>. LOL. Thank you for being my biggest supporters and for always being there when I needed you. I know you are proud of me, and I want you to know—I am proud of you, your marriage, and the life you’ve created too.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Anne—</b>thank you for teaching me how to become a whole woman. Words cannot describe the impact you have made in my life, my marriage, and my ability to unlock my full potential. I love you.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>David—</b>whenever I need advice, perspective, coaching, a laugh, or a great gin and tonic—I got you on speed dial. Thank you for teaching me how to be a Good Boss and an even better friend. Christine and I couldn’t do it without you, and we definitely wouldn’t want to! Love you.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Pete—</b>you absolutely nailed it with the book cover. The design is everything I dreamed of and more. I am sure I have been a giant pain in the rear end to work with, and I appreciate your patience with all the last-minute chaos. Thank you for your creativity—the cover is absolutely amazing, and I hope you are as proud of it as I am.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Julie—</b>What can I say? The interior of this book feels clean, light, and exactly right. You made it all come together, and I’m thrilled with the result. Thank you for your hard work and dedication!</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Lindsay—</b>it is hard to put in words how much I appreciate your support even when I wasn’t publishing a new book. You have been booking me on the <span class="big"><i>Today</i></span> show and sending me PR opportunities. You are smart, dedicated, and I am so excited to continue this rodeo with you.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_308" title="308"/><b>To my entire team—</b>thank you for giving me and Sawyer the space to write this book, all while you were producing two podcast episodes a week, a six-month online coaching program, keynote speeches, and productions for our partners at Audible, Ulta Beauty. . . and many more! You are THE BEST team on the planet. I couldn’t have done it without your dedication and teamwork.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>The tattoo artists and those who gave me your stories through your art—</b>you are the true inspiration behind this book. Watching the <span class="big"><i>Let Them</i></span> concept take off has been humbling and exhilarating. It all began with you, and I’m forever grateful for the chance to share your meaningful, beautiful designs with the world.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Patty, Reid, Diane, Lizzi, Arya-Mehr, Marlene, Betsy, Kathleen, and the entire team at Hay House—</b>I love being your partner. There is so much that you do that I don’t even know what I should be listing, so to absolutely everyone who has supported this book, sold it, marketed it, and read it, it takes a village and it’s an honor to be a part of yours.</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Partners at Audible—</b>WOW! We have been working together for seven YEARS. I cannot believe how much we have done together. Even as I write this acknowledgment, for partnering with me on <span class="big"><i>The Let Them Theory</i></span> audiobook, you and I are actively researching the topic for our seventh original Audible production together. I am so honored to be a part of your global and life-changing mission. Here’s to the next seven Audible originals. I love you guys!</p>
<p class="tx1-1"><b>Align PR—</b>You are the first PR agency I have ever hired and it is so worth it. I am amazed by the way you think, operate, and excel at your craft. I am proud to work with the best and that is YOU.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>